as you can tell this is an intro tacked
onto the start of podcast but this is
really an edited excerpt from a much
longer conversation I had with a younger
vegan activist here on YouTube Adrian if
you go back a whole year on this channel
I was talking to her back when she was
just starting University she was very
optimistic about getting involved with
vegan activist groups on campus and when
we did this next interview a year later
all that optimism is God so I hope she
stays in touch with me I mean I always
say this I'm really into this for the
future of the movement and it's great to
see people like Adrian struggling with
the contradictions she got involved with
a animal rights group that was not vegan
and then she's having to look at oh my
god these people say they support animal
rights but they meet every day it'll
make you feel old whether or not that
kind of experience in vegan politics
will actually lead you being more mature
or not it'll definitely make you feel
older and it was so great target Adrian
again I guess I'll try to give a link
below the video to the the conversation
episode in the past because that is
still here on YouTube you can check that
out but we get to watch adrian get older
and more experienced the more mature and
hey i'm getting older and more
experienced more mature two guys I am
I've changed I've changed into thirds of
town hopefully for the better look so in
this spontaneous conversation that
follows the next few minutes there's
this evocative image that comes up I
didn't have this plan to script it
obviously but this image comes up where
I contrast the type of violence we have
in war of humans against humans and the
endless pointless seemingly infinite
violence of human beings against animals
you know the ongoing slow-motion
disaster that is the meat and dairy
industry you know I just wanted to bring
in here another image that I've talked
about in terms of questioning effective
activism recently on Twitter I made the
comment you know vegans who want to
imitate the type of street protest that
we associate with the Vietnam War why is
it so hard to realize that you're
imitating failure you know I think it's
a really interesting contrast to talk
about the peace movement as opposed to
the vegan movement
and people like Gary frenzy oh and I do
this although they do it I think in a
very childish way they don't really
think about it let me say something
every single protest you've ever seen TV
footage of of people protest against the
Vietnam War was a failure the protest
individually were a failure the movement
as a whole was a failure the vietnam war
didn't end until there was a
geopolitical arrangement between China
and the United States it was a
negotiated settlement as part of the
so-called strategic triangle involving
China Russia and the USA every single
protest against the Vietnam War that
whole peace movement was a failure and I
think you can measure it's a failure
more than one way you can measure the
different outcomes they were hoping to
achieve but the most obvious being an
actual entity NM war failed failed
failed so you know veganism is different
we can have a lot of small victories we
can have a lot of small victories in the
next 200 years before the big victory
comes we really can live in a world
where it is not normal to wear leather
shoes anymore partly because leather is
obsolete you'll need leather shoes we
can I think within my lifetime we can
switch from having a culture where
eating meat is considered normal and
necessary and healthy to a culture where
generally people regard me as something
unhealthy as something like cigarettes
or alcohol or even if they think it's
normal because alcohol and cigarettes
are still normal where it's just
perceived with that kind of odious
awareness that you're doing something
bad you know about yourself for the
animals for ecology that it's unhealthy
and unnecessary and you know an
awareness that our culture is in a
transition that does chief depth a nabol
you know it's really it's not pie in the
sky to say that we as vegans we can win
to something worth waiting to something
again
but how are we going to get there it's
not going to be through imitating the
methods of the peace movement a peace
movement that looking back at the last
20 years and looking back at the last
hundred years has only failed and failed
and failed right since September 11 of
2001 there have been peace marches all
over the world there's been a peace
movement all over the world you try to
show me any sense in which it has been
victorious so you're asking yourself
what you can do in your community in
your lifetime here and now don't imitate
failure look at examples of social
movements that sought to change the
world and actually it had some success
something we're talking about whether
you look at regulations against
seatbelts Mothers Against Drunk Driving
community-based movements or it is a lot
you can look at there's a lot to think
about but that you know specific Wars
come and go with tremendous violence
against specific objectives but I mean
the war of human beings against animals
I've never talked about it that way
before it's just an image that came up
your spontaneously it's a secret war
because it's going on all the time and
it's invisible to the people who
participate in it it's so much taken for
granted as just part of the background
violence of daily life here and now
anyway I don't know I mean in the other
side of it like in France now it's being
debated this is only a debate it's not a
law but it's been proposed that France
could have a law just to make sure there
are security cameras in every
slaughterhouse I would love to see no
it's only a bill so it's not too might
not make sorry maybe I'm wrong but I
daughter I checked into it like two days
ago so you know it's been proposed but
the law is and it's not a lawyer yet
it's just an idea but you know I've
always wondered but that it was
something when you talking about the
reality of the dairy industry whether
it's the slaughterhouses of the other
stages if you got a law passed that just
made the industry more transparent if
you have a law that allowed for example
journalists to go in and film it
anytime you know it got announced or
with five minutes notice or something
you know I maybe I'm still an optimist
about human nature but I cannot believe
that the majority of human beings in
Canada would accept the reality of what
that industry is they could just see it
you know I maybe I'm still naive yeah
I'm I babe I made my parents lodgers
wings and they weren't faceplant they're
like yeah that happens like get over it
like I don't know how I came from them
but yeah it's erotic towards animals my
dad like I lived near the burlington pig
slaughter house and he was laughing
about 8,000 pigs being killed every day
like yeah please don't give a [ __ ] and
you're like oh I just taste good is
nothing I mean it's weird for me though
because you know my my objection is not
really the violence or isn't to all
violence what I hate about it is
meaningless violence you know what I
mean like if you're fighting a war and
there's an objective to the war and
you're trying to win the war and the war
is over at some point you think okay
this is violence but it's not
meaningless there's a purpose as an
objective and you know the war we're
fighting against animals it's just a war
every day that has no purpose and no
positive outcome at no little paws
bochum except for you know the kind of
self-indulgence of I was going to say a
small number of people but I guess it's
the stuff of those in millions and nines
people who feel that it's you know
enjoyable eat bacon or whatever it is
that to me is the part that's that's
really so disgusting and they'll believe
me I know particular Wars can be really
meaningless I understand I understand
nothing another thing or it's really
meaningful are great but for me I you
know I'm not uh not as as totally anti
violence or aunt or pacifist as some of
the vegans are you know there have been
wars where you know the question is are
you going to exist or you're not going
to exist and you get a group of you have
to fight for survival I really do relate
to that innocence
but my sense of horror at it might have
to pay it forward is for the meat and
dairy industry is the meaninglessness of
that violence and the infinite scope of
it so the plan is for this to go on
forever it to me it's so inaccessible I
just say you know um my father is not
the deepest guy he's not the deepest
rucksack in the shop but i can remember
because you talking about driving in
burlington of these areas but when he
drove past what were then new factory
farms for chickens and new factory farms
for pigs were with Ashley a steel
building you know he hadn't grown up
seeing that he would always really
really be shocked by that he just the
sight of that how different that was
from his idea of a farm from what farms
looked like when he was a kid you know
he was I could see he was shaken up by
that you know I was just seeing the
steel structure from the outside you
know but you had some idea you could
guess what was going on inside yeah my
dad actually gives lots of friends that
are dairy farmers or chicken farmers you
he dug a what's it called foundation for
like 10 sugar Barnes a couple years ago
yeah if I just down the road from my
house you can smell it in the cell right
Cisco yeah yeah wasn't that the town
where I was a small kid the water the
local drinking water for humans was
poisoned because of the lagoons for the
pigs so you know what happens to the pig
[ __ ] after they clear away the pig [ __ ]
that was actually poisoning the water
supply the humans relied on and you know
I can't say nobody cares but I could say
like everyone was making up different
excuses for it you know we have that old
saying in Canada this is like really
canadian slang no smoke no baloney I
know if you know that thing that's like
yeah well you know the pigs are
poisoning the water supply but no smoke
no baloney that means like if you can't
put up with the pollution you can turn
any money you can't you can't put meat
on the table this kind of thing you know
and yeah my I would prefer to both have
no smoke and no baloney yeah let's get
rid of the meat on the table let's also
get rid of the unbelievable you know
rushing pollution in this stuff yeah uh
you know God give me I just got an email
from someone asking me why do you think
so many vegans become misanthropes you
know why do they develop this kind of
age of your old man well when you regard
everyone else on the planet or ninety
eight percent of people as living in
this kind of willful ignorance as making
excuses for this you know unbelievable
immoral ugly violent travesty every day
of their lives you start to develop a
pretty a pretty grim view of your fellow
human and at the same time you know I
still reach out to other vegans just
because they're vegan I still try to
stay positive and optimistic about these
other crazy people I meet on the
internet like oh you're vegan I want to
be your best friend but as you know most
I experienced other vegans is also
pretty negative so I'm still like a try
first I met my first bacon on campus
this week it was pretty great oh oh but
so what you don't count your boyfriend
didn't you drag your boyfriend into
being vegan or no no not really Oh drama
he's asking me the other day he's like I
would you know any like he's eating
yogurt there be an end cuz this is the
wood why like I'm just trying to be
healthier are you are you handling be
vegan not tell me you you gotta ask
yourself how you're gonna feel about it
too cuz i've been i've been talking to
someone lately and she did drag her
boyfriend into being vegan and her
boyfriend was really really overweight
like I think he was like 300 pounds and
he dropped he lost like 20 pounds being
when he became vegan but still he's got
a lot of weight to lose he was like
really really really heavy but ethically
if you know your boyfriend only became
vegan because you forced him to I'm like
please don't be vegan because you think
that I need you to be like be vegan
because you believe in the ethics and
morals of it like don't
it liked or to yourself just because you
think I need you to be like Road do it
is because I I took me four years maybe
get after watching Earthlings so like
what I'm not gonna let I force him to do
it it took me forever well right but
then so what when you saw Earthlings
were you like 14 or something like if
you were pretty young when you became
vegan yeah okay but that's that's
different if you're 28 is different if
you're 35 just saying like taking when
you started 14 taking four-year this is
kind of different